Privacy deprecation (#1730)
hyperledger/besu-docs: docs/private-networks/concepts/privacy/flexible-privacy.md

description: Flexible privacy groups
---

# Flexible privacy groups (Deprecated)

:::caution

> Tessera-based Privacy is deprecated in Besu as of 24.11.0. Please read this [blog](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/blog/sunsetting-tessera-and-simplifying-hyperledger-besu) for more context on the rationale behind this decision as well as alternative options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tessera-based privacy is deprecated in Besu version 24.11.0 and later. Please read this [blog post](https://www.lfdecentralizedtrust.org/blog/sunsetting-tessera-and-simplifying-hyperledger-besu) for more context on the rationale behind this decision as well as alternative options.
```

(If ok, apply across all notices)
